Welcome.  My name is Corey.  It is a pleasure to meet you.  I am excited to see that you have found my humble corner of the internet.  
Here, I mainly will be sharing over 25 years of musical knowledge but I also will share just as many years of philosophy, psychology, and most importantly, being an all around decent human being.  
I can't stress this enough that...

You will not find another source of knowledge like this one.  

It's been quite difficult for me to start this project simply because I want to tell you 100,000 things all at the same time.  
I have heard so many times, if I learn music then I will lose the ability to be creative... Do you think learning how to read and write will prevent someone from writing a story?  Will learning how to use a paintbrush prevent you from painting a picture?  Simply put, if you look at learning a new technique, scale, riff, effect, instrument, etc., think of these as a carpenter learning how to use a level, tape measure, drill, hammer, etc.  

(if I didn't scare you away, please continue)  =)

I will say this, if you learn something new, you are gaining something.  It absolutely will not take away from your creative potential.  In fact will only expand it.  Through learning the tricks of the trade, it is then that you may use your creative self.  

Looking at music as if it were a trade like carpentry or PC repairing will greatly benefit you.  I will elaborate more later on.  

PRACTICE MAKES PERMANENT!  

Why do I say this?  If you practice anything incorrectly it simply becomes a bad habit.  Think of a bad habit you have.... Now never do it again!!  Easy said then done  =)  So let's say you learned a skill backwards, now you have to train yourself to do the opposite.  And I won't go into what's "Right or Wrong", but sometimes there are better choices.

 

“Do we agree that my left hand exists?  So if we are talking about my right hand, my left hand is still here.”  

“The whole is greater than the sum of it’s individual parts.”

“You will not lose anything by gaining information.  These are here for us to use at anytime, like tools in a toolbox.”

I also like to add:

There are 3 pieces of this puzzle I cannot teach you:

Rhythm.

Feel.

Eagerness and willingness to learn.

Before I go any further, a few questions for you to think about for a moment.  Give it a good thought.  Don’t stop at the first thought.  You will surprise yourself.  

There are 5 cooks.
Each has their own kitchen but they all have the same cookware and ingredients.
Ask them to individually make breakfast.
Do you think they would come up with the same exact dishes?  

There are 5 carpenters.  Each of them have their own workshop, tools, and materials.  I then asked them to build a chair.  Just something you would sit on.  Now think of all the different seats you've seen, sat in, own.  The variety of colors and styles are endless.  It is the same with music.  All the same "tools" just different applications.

There is a major misconception regarding learning music. I even run into it from others that have a Bachelor’s Degree in Music. And that misconception is that “anything you learn about music is theory.”

From https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/theory

Theory

a plausible or scientifically acceptable general principle or body of principles offered to explain phenomena

a belief, policy, or procedure proposed or followed as the basis of action

*the general or abstract principles of a body of fact, a science, or an art
music theory

**an ideal or hypothetical set of facts, principles, or circumstances
**a hypothesis assumed for the sake of argument or investigation
a body of theorems presenting a concise systematic view of a subject
theory of equations

***abstract thought : speculation

***an unproved assumption : conjecture

 the analysis of a set of facts in their relation to one another

In other words, Theory is not tangible, not 100%.  It is sometimes, maybe, kinda, not so much, usually.  

Now, If I asked, measure the length of the screen you are looking at with a ruler, could you do it?

If I asked you what is 4 + 4?

These are Fundamentals.  The building blocks, the tools-of-the-trade.  They are instruments, string gauges, Scales, Chords, Beats, Measures.  These are what we will be learning and using and with these tools, we dive into the realm of Theory.  

We should be less concerned about labels or who said what.  It is crucial to understand the difference. A wrench is just a wrench.  But as I said at the beginning of this page, I cannot teach you how to feel the music.  I will say through persistence and practice, it will get easier and eventually it will become second nature.  

You will be amazed how little effort it takes to create something original.  And with more effort, create music that is both unique and tasteful.  

I want to share with you all the ability of opening up possibilities.  To be able to sit next to another musician and through the same tools of the trade, lingo, be able to musically converse, whether it is through writing a song together or improvising with strangers at an open-mic-night.  

I want others to gain the ability of sounding professional, well rehearsed.  Going on feeling alone will result in embarrassment, poor performances, and disappointed crowds.  Not understanding the fundamentals is the same thing as being dropped off in a foreign country and no one speaks your native tongue.
